Harry Potter, an eleven year old boy, lives with his dreadful Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon and
their son Dudley. His life isn’t very bright; he has to sleep in the cupboard under the stairs,
never gets anything for his birthday (except a pair of Uncle Vernon’s old socks maybe) and his
nephew Dudley constantly bullies him. One day Harry starts receiving strange letters and is rescued
by a giant man. Harry discovers his parents didn’t die in a car crash (as his uncle and aunt always told him),
but that they were wizards, and that he’s one as well. But that’s not all; he even seems to not just a wizard,
but also a famous one. The reason for this is because a Dark Wizard named Voldemort who killed a lot of people,
including Harry’s parents, lost his power when he tried to kill Harry.
Now Harry also knows where from he got the scar on his forehead.
He enrolls at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry where he meets new friends, but also enemies.
In the beginning of the year all the students at Hogwarts are told by Professor Dumbledore (the headmaster)
not to enter the third floor corridor,unless they wish to “die a very painful death”. As the year proceeds Harry
finds that the Philosopher’s Stone, a magical stone which is capable of turning anything into gold and prolonging life,
is stored behind this corridor. He also discovers someone is trying to steal it.
Harry enters the forbidden corridor and passes the barriers set by the teachers of Hogwarts to protect the stone.
But his Defence Against The Dark Arts teacher Professor Quirrel, does as well. It turns out that Voldemort shares
the body of Professor Quirrel, as that is the only way he can live in his weakened state. Professor Quirrel,
however, doesn’t get past all barriers. He can’t get over the last one, the Mirror of the Erised, placed by Dumbledore himself.
In this mirror you will see what you most desire. Quirrel, of course, mostly desires the stone, but the mirror has been bewitched
in a way that only someone who wants the Stone for itself, not for the powers it possesses, can see in the mirror where the stone is.
Quirrel has the intention of giving the stone to Voldemort when he finds it, so he can’t see where it is.
But Harry does meet this need of the mirror and finds the stone in his pocket when he looks into the mirror.
In the next moments Harry and Quirrel are fighting about the stone. Just when Harry can’t bear it any longer,
Professor Dumbledore comes to help and in the end Harry once again is able to overcome the Dark Wizard and keep the world save from his powers.
Some facts about Hogwarts: The pupils of Hogwarts are divided into four school houses: Gryffindor, Slytherin,
Ravenclaw and Hufflepuff. To be sorted into a certain school house you have to have certain characteristics.
For example, for Gryffindor you have to have courage, for Slytherin you have to be sly and let nothing stop you from achieving your goal,
for Ravenclaw you have to be intelligent and for Hufflepuff you have to have a good heart. Harry is sorted into Gryffindor,
just as his friends Ron and Hermione. Slytherin is known for producing a lot of dark wizards and witches.
